Muslim pilgrims to the annual Hajj in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, will this year have to adhere to health restrictions brought on by the global Covid-19 pandemic. But they could also face an age limit restriction due to the virus, which could lock out some people. Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs traditionally releases information and guidelines regarding Hajj, which are then communicated to the country’s diplomatic missions abroad. It is yet to do so. This year’s Hajj will begin on July 28 and end on August 2, when pilgrims travel to Mecca, Mina, Arafat and Medina for the observance of the fifth pillar of Islam. According to Abdulla Talib Abdulla, Zanzibar’s executive secretary of the Waqf and Trust Commission, “the pilgrims are to be subjected to stricter travel restrictions this time around before they enter the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and other social distancing restrictions while shuttling between the holy sites.” Speaking to The EastAfrican in a telephone interview on Tuesday, Mr Abdulla said although Saudi Arabia is yet to issue an official statement on the same, he consulted the Tanzanian High Commissioner to the country, Ali Jabir Mwadini, who said there is talk of having an age limit of up to 60 years, because the disease has been reported to be more severe in the elderly. Mr Abdulla dismissed reports that Saudi Arabia had already included a requirement that pilgrims must have a coronavirus vaccine certificate. He said the Kingdom is yet to issue an official statement on the matter. “We are waiting for the Holy Month of Shaaban or Ramadhan when we will be informed by Saudi Arabia if any restrictions will be imposed, including the unconfirmed vaccine control measure,” he added. According to Nuhu Jabir Mruma, secretary general of the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA), said they are waiting for a circular from Saudi’s Ministry of Hajj which will confirm whether Covid-19 vaccination is mandatory as reported by the Al Jazeera news agency, which was quoting a Saudi local newspaper. Mr Mruma said the circular will stipulate the “dos and don’ts” to be followed by Hajj pilgrims. “The annual Hajj pilgrimage is not a property of the Saudis alone but it belongs to other countries as well, which Saudi authorities are supposed to consult as has been the case in previous years,” the BAKWATA official said. Mr Abdulla, who is also the Zanzibar government’s contact person for Hajj matters, said he expects a drop in the number of pilgrims from Zanzibar. It costs an average Zanzibari $4,000 to make the pilgrimage to Mecca, and with travel restrictions this could increase. It costs an average Zanzibari $4,000 to make the pilgrimage to Mecca, and with travel restrictions, Mr Abdulla said it could increase. Zanzibar sends an average of 1,500 pilgrims annually. Last year's Hajj had an unprecedentedly low turnout of only 1,000 pilgrims, from the usual high of two million people, due to concerns over the pandemic. Sub-Saharan Africans account for at least 10 per cent of the Muslims who make the annual Islam’s holiest sites annually.