Apart from a couple of squealers trying to talk from both sides of their mouths, we are edging closer to stating that, yes, there was a misunderstanding but Covid-19 is real, and it is taking its toll among our people. It is some progress, seeing as we are coming from a far away land where we had prayed to God and He had told the silly virus to let His people go, to where we are now, saying we may have been mistaken in our reading of the intentions of the Most High. We still have to deal with the double-messaging coming out of some official quarters, such as the government spokesman who sounded like he was saying that no one is allowed to say anyone has died of the pandemic except himself and a couple of other bureaucrats who, alone, could say who died when, where and of what. The monopolistic spokesman was so absent-minded in his statement that he did not seem to realise he was talking about a stricture that was imposed twelve months ago. He seemed to need reminding that then the first wave of the virus was subsiding and the very few deaths that took place could be attributed to other causes. This is what I call cheek. Apparently this middling official with a fancy title was answering some cleric who had had the courage to declare that too many men and women of the cloth had succumbed to Covid-19 as proof that the Grim Reaper was indeed very busy harvesting in the fields surrounding the church. Now, I was asking myself, are we soon getting to a point where we can no longer say our people are dying unless the government says we can? I know we are not there yet, but suffice it to say that the arrogance displayed by some of these subaltern officials, even after their principals have softened their stances and are looking for a smooth exit, could portend a worrisome future, which I have reluctantly termed ‘Kafkaesque’. Does the government mouthpiece have the right to tell the preacher not to say he has seen people dying of certain causes? When the causes seem so clear? The government spokespeople are free to say they have entered a pact with God about which the designated ambassadors of the Big Man on earth know nothing? Between the two claims, which one is more likely to be a lie? We have been reading humorous quips about everybody doing someone else’s job because they have failed to do theirs — and sometimes it can be entertaining — but let’s not carry it too far. I recently got a message from an academic friend of mine living outside Dar who was aggressively jeered at a market because he was wearing a mask, and he sounded distressed, which I understand. But those jeering morons in the market are not to blame; the blame should lie with those who say one thing today and another tomorrow, confusing the confusable; these latter are legion in our midst because educational system has been serving up too many morons. The English adage that where ignorance is bliss it is folly to be wise, should be taken without a grain of salt or drop of milk, because not only is it true but it can be fatal for the unwary. I venture to give an example: If someone who has some power over me were to declare that the sun rises in the evening and sets in the morning, and apparently everybody agreed with him, I should choose another boss, or become ‘bossless’, because, apart from the very practical problems associated with what time we go to bed and what time we rise, we may soon discover that the roosters have left us and they have gone to a more balanced village where daybreak is dawn and sunset is dusk. Such a transformation in our neck of the woods is no longer a figment of the fertile imagination but a possibility that today stares us in the face. It is even ominous that our people are praising our clergy for taking a stand against the obscurantist stance of many government officials by stating the too obvious. I do not want to wade into the murky polemic about what the Christian churches may have done, or not done, had the head of state been a Muslim. In the past, certain churches allowed themselves a more vociferous intervention when they thought certain matters were not handled properly by those in power. Where they were right we stood by them. There is no reason for anyone to praise them for doing just what is their duty. Lest we start thinking that the duty of care belongs only to the organised systems of belief that came to us from outside the continent. It is common human sense. Which pagan looks on such mounting numbers of deaths as we have witnessed in these few months and chooses to play ‘nice’ with those at the root of such perdition? Jenerali Ulimwengu is now on YouTube via jeneralionline tv. E-mail: jenerali@gmail.com