 The proposed bill to criminalise sharing of pornographic material in Kenya to stop alleged moral decline is — just like the proposal to re-introduce corporal punishment in schools to tame student indiscipline — a knee jerk solution. It demonstrates once again the inability of our policy makers to think deeply and strategically about the state of our nationhood. Their activities, as William Shakespeare might say, are “full of sound and fury, signifying nothing”. In other words, they busy themselves with matters that have no influence on our political and economic welfare. That is why, as other countries advance beyond our reach, we are still dealing with problems of the mid-20th century. The biggest problem we have in this country is not sexual immorality. Rather, it is political immorality. For instance, politicians incite people to kill others of a different ethnicity or religion. Ethnic violence flared in 1992 and 1997. The Akiwumi Judicial Commission of Inquiry into ethnic violence established that the killings were facilitated by government operatives as state agencies looked the other way. The widespread bloodletting in 2007/8 — symbolised by the burning of people, some of them in wheel chairs, in a church in the Rift Valley — led to the indictment of politicians and officials by the International Criminal Court. Further, the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission report also established the involvement of state officials in assassinations and ethnic killings, including the infamous Wagala Massacre in which over three thousand people were tortured and killed. Additionally, politicians or those connected to them have executed spectacular, if callous, looting sprees. Billions were carted away in the National Youth Service heists. Thievery at the National Produce and Cereals Board enriched officials and the well-connected at the expense of struggling farmers. For a quick buck, officials have repackaged poisonous foodstuff and sold it to the poor. But perhaps the theft which demonstrates the complete breakdown of morality among the political class was theft of billions of shillings meant to fight Covid-19. When officials steal money meant to help the sick and the dying, then a society has reached the nadir of moral decay. So the question Aden Duale, the sponsor of the bill, should be asking himself and his fellow politicians is: What causes poverty or can lead to war and Rwanda-style implosion — the actions of politicians or a private citizen viewing pornographic material in the privacy of his home? Sexual morality is not an eternal and absolute concept. It is a value judgment which changes from time to time. Most sexual mores were formed and shaped by patriarchy whose goal has always been to control women’s bodies. As women assert themselves and take back control of their bodies, there will be more shrill calls from residual patriarchy to legislate sexual morality. This latest attempt, too, will fail. What is disturbing is that this hypocritical moralising distracts from the cancer that is eating at the soul of our nationhood — political immorality. Tee Ngugi is a Nairobi-based political commentator