It is valentine month, and everyone is planning to surprise loved one. “Come o-on,” Stephanie’s voice whined through the phone and Amy rolled her eyes, she’d never be able to say no, would she? “Steph I really don’t…” Amy started, but was quickly cut off. “It’s a pandemic,” Stephanie wasn’t taking no for an answer, “How else did you expect me to find him? So I swiped on a couple of online profiles and…” “…And so you can go meet up with him,” Amy snapped ungraciously, instantly sorry; her best friend could be a bit annoying sometimes, but her intentions were always good, “I’m sorry Steph, it’s just not my thing. And besides, you said it yourself, it’s a pandemic, how can I go on a blind date safely?” “It’ll be alright,” Stephanie had thought of everything, “I told him you like the outdoors and he suggested the nature trail just outside the city… You know, the one you like? You’ll be out in the open air, you can social distance and…”“Sooo…You want me to meet a complete stranger somewhere out in the woods?!” Amy pressed, her voice dripping with good humour at her friend’s craziness, and a bit of shock. “Oh don’t be so dramatic A,” it was Stephanie’s turn to roll her eyes, “You know that trail is not isolated at all, there’s a café right there! A, come on, what’s the worst that can happen?” Amy sighed into the phone, shrugging her shoulders to dispel the myriad of nasty scenarios she was already imagining, and acquiesced silently. Stephanie wasn’t letting up. What was the worst that could happen? “…I’ve already set it all up, you can’t cancel now,” Stephanie was still going. “Okay, okay...but I’m only doing this for you,” Amy cut in. “For me?!” Stephanie exclaimed, laughter muffling her words, “Wait till you see him A, mark my words… You’ll thank me later.” The sun was peeking through an overcast, grey sky. The smell of the rain was in the air. A cool wind whispered every now and again, but otherwise the day was still, warm, as though the cloudy sky was a blanket keeping all the heat in. Amy stood at the trailhead, shifting from one foot to the other, watching two hawks in the sky. They swooped and circled and danced in tandem, flapping their wings then holding perfectly still, riding the air currents, gliding smoothly across the dull sky. “You watch birds too? I’m fascinated every time I see…” Amy spun around and caught her breath at the speaker. “Hi, I’m Tim… You’re Amy right?” Tall, toned, broad shouldered; the man looked down at her with kind, smiling eyes and even though he continued to talk, Amy couldn’t hear a thing above the wild beating of her heart. “…Have you?” he asked, and she started out of her reverie, embarrassed at her awkwardness. “Uhh, sorry… Have I what?” she asked sheepishly. “Stephanie told me you like the outdoors, have you been here before?” “Yes,” Amy smiled, willing her nerves to calm down, “It’s actually one of my favourite places,” she turned to wave her arm at the thick growth of trees, “I mean, just look at it.” “Yeah,” he looked off into the forest, allowing Amy another furtive glance at his profile, “Shall we?” he winked at her. Immediately they were under the forest canopy, the temperature dropped significantly. It was cooler and darker, quieter even, sounds seemingly muffled by the tranquillity the forest seemed to demand. Only the rustle of leaves, the sweet calls of birds and the crunch of dried twigs underfoot accompanied them as they strolled deeper in. “I’ll admit,” he broke the silence first, “I found it really weird that your friend was looking for a date for someone else.” “Haha, that’s Stephanie for you,” Amy was relaxing now, the forest always calmed her, “I found it really weird too! I don’t usually… Actually, I’ve never been on a blind date before.” “So why did you agree?” “Honestly?” she shot him a mirthful look, “I said yes to get her to shut up about it, and hopefully leave me out of her nutty plans next time.” He threw his head back and laughed. It was a wonderful sound, Amy thought. Hearty, full of feeling with nothing held back. She giggled, it was infectious. “She’s the sweetest, it’s just…” Amy stopped mid-sentence as Tim’s laughter froze in his throat. A few feet up ahead on the trail, there was a sudden movement in the brush, then two snarling wild dogs rolled out of the forest and onto the trail. Snapping their jaws, they lunged at each other once more and for a few seconds it was all frenzy. Then, one got the upper hand, sending the other whining and fleeing back into the tree line. It stared at its retreating foe for another minute and then turned to see Amy and Tim watching, frozen on the spot. The wild dog bared its teeth and growled, moving slowly toward them. “Oh my God,” Amy exhaled, involuntarily reaching for Tim’s hand in her fear. She clutched air. Not daring to look away from the wild dog, she turned her head slightly searching for him, and almost laughed in shock and horror. Tim had already begun backtracking; he was almost a full five meters behind her! Seriously?! Was he really going to leave her there? Just then Stephanie’s voice broke through her panic, ‘What’s the worst that can happen?” She was going to throttle her best friend, if she got out of this… “Amy!” Tim whispered loudly, scaring her out of her wits again, “Amy, move slowly to your left… Left, okay? Amy, with emotions hurtling through her, was like a robot. She began to move as slowly as she could, watching the wild dog come ever closer, seeing the drool slide down it’s shiny teeth… “Arghh!” Tim roared, and Amy caught only a blur of him as he hurtled toward the animal. He was armed with a big stick, but it was the suddenness of his attack, as well as his size, that scared the dog. It yelped and took off down the trail, darting into the cover of the trees after a few hundred feet. “Are you okay? Are you hurt?” Tim was all concern, squeezing her clammy hands. “Yes,” Amy managed a weak smile, “But uhh, let’s get out of here?” They sat at the café bordering the trail and sipped on cold drinks, the banter and laughter flowing. Amy’s phone buzzed, it was a text from Stephanie. ‘How’s it going?’ Amy grinned and quickly typed, ‘Thanks’. ***This article was first published in The EastAfrican newspaper on February 13, 2021.