In Tanzania, Covid-19 isn’t on national headlines and the way we’re dealing with the pandemic is considered by many worldwide as irresponsible. Yet as a journalist with a lifelong asthma frailty, I’ve been using herbal remedies and exercising in the country’s most populated city, Dar es Salaam, and like the clear majority of my city folk I’m still strong. I ask if scientists investigated whether herd immunity against Covid-19 is working in Tanzania. They could find surprising results. This trail of thought is well investigated by the art exhibition currently running at Alliance Francais grounds in Dar. “From this global health crisis that we still face, we learn to go back to the basics and that it is important we remain united among families, friends and colleagues,''Akiko Konada, a Japanese fine artist, shares on the mission statement for the residency she headed at the Alliance grounds for this exhibition titled "Pamoja". Let it be said the Alliance Francais offices in Dar have strict protocols on prevention from Covid-19. At the gate a poster tells you "mask is recommended" and the guard will immediately show you a bucket where you can wash your hands. Akiko has great skill with charcoal painting and is a graduate of Kanazawa College of Art in Ishikawa, Japan. Being an art school teacher for several years meant she was just the right person to mentor ten artists (eight painters and two dancers) from Tanzania in a residency that produced 16 professional paintings and several charcoal still drawings in just two weeks! The methodology Akiko employed is using afro-contemporary dancers Pili Hassani and Ulonzi R.Almasi perform for the painters — Albano Slyvester, Ally Kilua, Barnabas Mnamba, Jennifer Msekwa, Magreth Liwembe, Jabar J. Mwarabi, Hedwiga M Tairo and Salum Kambi. While they had to capture their movement eternally with charcoal on white canvas, was indeed a redefinition of still life drawing. Although the painters had varying experiences with some like Salum Kambi coming with strong resumes spanning over 15 years and others with less than six years on the craft, this exercise united them. As to the other artworks the painters produced, Akiko required they answer this: “At first, Covid-19 was not expected to last long and that things would resume as usual…it turned out more serious than we expected causing tremendous impact on health and economic activities worldwide.” The painters were expected to capture the impact of Covid-19 in their everyday lives as Tanzania since May 2020 officially declined to implement strict lockdown protocols for its citizens against the disease. Going through the show, you wouldn’t be alone if you find it amusing, that an exhibition investigating how to capture ‘togetherness’ during coronavirus in Tanzania, has no Tanzanian artist showcasing anyone wearing a mask. It’s these themes of — economic empowerment; gender equity; animal poaching; children rights; the disabled rights; mental health and authentic African cultural evolution — that ooze as the artists’ response. On the real challenges they see their citizens face in finding their ‘pamoja’ during this pandemic. Personally, I was really drawn to the largest painting by Akiko in this exhibition, rendering an impressionist style with acrylic no less (it dries quicker making smudges more difficult). The subject has this abstract Maasai man in a blue ‘rubega’ sitting under a frangipani tree, the soul of this piece is palpable as something haunts yet soothes in its aura. Another artwork that stands out in this exhibition is Children play on the Road by Ally Kilua. The subjects being children playing against a rosy abstract purple, lilac and all matter of yummy sky/earth. Looking at the children, one with an iconic revolving single bicycle tyre, the painting can pull your heartstrings. The paintings are mostly pricey in my opinion ranging from Tsh150,000 ($64.69) and Tsh1,300,000 ($560.63) but a few are a sure investment. ***This article was first published in The EastAfrican newspaper on February 6, 2021.