If you haven’t been to Malawi in the last say, 50 years, you may find the story of a minister flying from Lilongwe to Geneva to participate in a Zoom conference unconvincingly illogical. I was in Malawi on a teaching assignment eight years ago and loved the country so much, for its illogicality was so typical of most African countries I have visited, mine included. The journey from the logical main city of Blantyre to the illogical capital of Lilongwe took a whole day by road. I got to see the best structure in the capital — Kamuzu Banda’s grave. With a group of environmental journalists, we inspected the carnage on the forests the Ngwazi (chief of chiefs) had made his countrymen plant half a century earlier, whose timber was being sold to businessmen all the way from Kenya. There were minimal efforts to replace the trees that the much vilified dictator had planted! Just like Congo, Malawi’s anti-socialism stance earned the dictator protection from the West but no visible benefits to the masses. The illogical allocation of resources resulted in deprivation of the public for the benefit of a few. Typical of many countries on the continent. But who said the African socialist states fared any better? Did you hear of the ‘thoughtful’ independence present the Soviet Union gave Guinea? Snow ploughs that had been clearing the streets in Moscow’s harsh winters for years. African intellectuals always frowned at the illogical mindset of their politicians, as captured in the independence time story of a candidate’s campaign pledge to build a bridge for a bunch of villagers. When they told him that there was no river in their village, he vowed to bring them the river as well. Bridges and snow ploughs aside, this is an era of intangible values overtaking brick and mortar in monetary terms. Is there any company, for instance, that is making more money than the telecoms in our region? So don’t laugh hard at the Zoom conference and the Justice Minister. In Uganda a month back, we just narrowly survived spending exactly $130 million which we don’t have and which the Finance Minister told Parliament was urgently required via deficit budgeting to recapitalise Bank of Uganda from a Treasury already battered by Covid-19 expenses that have also added $1.5 billion dollars to the national debt. The next day, the Bank of Uganda managers went to the same parliament committee and swore they did not need recapitalisation because the central bank had just made a healthy, modest profit of $11million. Do I still hear any Ugandan laughing at Malawi’s Zoom conference in Geneva? After getting tired of promising bridges over dryland, African elite got practical and learnt to build white elephants. In the villages, they built town houses that stick out like a sore thumb, but have the peasants marvelling at how their sons have worked hard in government. Everyone wants their little Gbadolite — long live Field Marshall Mobutu, you have many admirers! In the cities, they have stacked the place with apartment blocks that have no tenants and yet they bombard you with figures of the “housing deficit” of millions of units for the capital cities. Illogical all the way. But let us not be pessimist — there are good policies in governments which are offering hope to and from the youth. The other day, the Uganda government’s automobile project took their new diesel bus on a countrywide tour and the reception in the rather remote Rwenzori mountainous region was amazing. The young people in the regional town of Kasese welcomed the country’s nascent auto industry saying they now expect the industries for making vehicle components to be built in their area because that is where the required key raw materials are found. Listening to the young, semi-skilled welders of Kasese enumerating the minerals in the area (for those not familiar with Uganda’s geography the area borders Congo, so the natural endowment is understandable) you can’t suppress a smile of hope. For unlike their elders who build white elephants, these youth have an idea what should determine the location of projects! Unlike national legislators who demand for uniform allocation across constituencies for any project funding they see, the youth are thinking logically. So, travelling thousands of miles to attend online conferences might end with the current generation of African leaders. Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. E-mail: buwembo@gmail.com