A half-moon shone brightly, casting a lovely, silvery light that the stars dotting the dark sky were by comparison tiny, dull, white orbs. The moonlight reflected on the sea below and shimmered like thousands of flashing lights that disappeared all at once when the heaving waves crashed into a towering cliff face, turning the iridescent blanket of water into a foamy, frothy, silvery white sheet. High up at the top of the cliff, a slim man, his wiry frame tensed like a snake, a slightly smoking gun gripped tightly in his hand, stood looking down at the churning waters below in a rage. Then suddenly, as a particularly violent wave crashed into the cliff face below, sending up a fountain of salty spray, his face relaxed and a small smile tugged at the corners of his lips. No way could she have survived that, plus, he was sure his shot hadn’t missed. He never missed. Down in the cold, swirling water below, Kira was in shock. She was drowning. She’d leaped from the cliff above just as the slim man, Boss, fired at her. She’d had no choice, not once he’d found out she’d been informing on their little gang to the police. He’d been in a murderous rage, chasing her for kilometres down the beach where their hide-away was, up this cliff and finally pursuing her right to the edge. She was sure he’d have liked to follow her right up to the gates of hell, just to make sure she passed through. But she was alone in the dark water that engulfed her and pulled her deeper into its depths. “Kick Kira…Kick!” Her eyes flew open, but she couldn’t see anything. She must be drowning, she’d hallucinated her mother’s voice… Feeling the last of the air in her lungs burning painfully, Kira realised she couldn’t swim against the thrashing, powerful waves near the surface that were surely dragging her closer to the jagged coral of the cliff, she had to face her fears, dive into the darkness and hope the undercurrent took her out into the open sea. Frantic as the last air bubbles escaped her tightly pursed lips, she summoned all her willpower and kicked out with both feet, feeling the left one hang limp from where she’d sliced it on coral in her escape from Boss. There was hardly any light at all now, just a darkness that made her feel like she was swimming through an empty nothingness. Then, just as she thought her lungs would burst, she felt the water grow suddenly very cold and found herself carried along as if down a lazy river. Kira broke through the surface with a gasp. For several long minutes, she gulped at the air greedily, then lay on her back and floated on the gently bobbing water as she revelled in the feeling of being alive. The cliff side loomed a safe distance away, and she almost allowed herself to completely relax before she remembered her bleeding foot and the presence of large predators. Then Kira struck out as fast as she could, her sore muscles screaming for rest, heading for a beach she knew would be to the left of the cliff. ***** The day was hot, though once again the sky was obscured with a thick blanket of dull, grey, hazy looking clouds. The heat simmered, mixed in with an unbearable humidity. It was a miracle that minuscule, weak waves still lapped against the shore. Boss stood watching the calm sea thoughtfully, his muscles coiled, but a serene look upon his face. Behind him, seated under a roughly hewn, wooden structure, were two men, who in contrast looked severely ill at ease. Held loosely in Boss’s right hand was a gun which he caressed with an elegant, index finger. “D’you think he actually did it?” one of the men, a plump, scared looking fellow, who despite his youthful looks, was already beginning to bald, whispered to his friend, “Do you think he killed her?” “Shut up!” his companion, a short, muscular man, snapped out, “Of course he did, now quiet! Before he hears…” Boss turned around, silencing the two profusely sweating men with a dangerous look in his eyes and a cruel smile on his lips. “I did,” he hissed quietly, “Shot her and threw her over the cliff,” he paused to let his words hang in the hot, sticky air, “Now will you two idiots be useful? I’m expecting our friend from the station and I need to think…Ah! There he is now.” A tall, austere looking man, dressed way too informally to be strolling on the beach was walking towards them, his shiny shoes crunching on the powdery, white sand. When he was a few paces away, he stopped and looked disdainfully at the wooden shack, the two nervous men seating under it and then turned his eyes to the slim man facing him. “Is it done?” he asked in a clipped tone, “I can’t have any loose ends that can be traced back to me.” “Yes,” Boss replied, his tone ugly, hating the patronising tone and look in the other man’s eyes, “Now, about what you promised…” Just then there was a sudden roar overhead as a helicopter shattered the silence. It was a camera crew, flying low, cameras at the ready and trained at the scene below. Before any of the stunned men could react, dozens of police broke through the lush tree-line of palms hung heavy with coconuts, yelling and waving guns. The four men were cornered, eyes bulging, mouths agape, incoherent chokes escaping them in place of words. Kira had considered going to the police, then remembered someone at the station was in bed with the criminals too. She’d taken her sensational story to the press who’d dug a little and realised that while Kira was informing the police to try and bring Boss down, the police commissioner, profiting off organised crime, was in cahoots with the criminals! Now he stood side by side in handcuffs with Boss sputtering in panic. Boss, however, was over the initial shock and a hot hatred simmered through him as he stared down the beach to where Kira had been hiding. “I’ll kill you, you hear!” he shouted venomously. “That’s what you said last time,” Kira shouted back, “And guess what, you missed.”