The story of the plagues is interesting, because just when one thought it could not get any worse, it actually did. And just when 2020 is coming to an end, news of another strain of the coronavirus hits our airwaves. As a child, one of my favourite Bible stories was the story of Moses. Reading about the plagues and just how difficult life was for Egyptians during that time, I would imagine what it was like to be alive and to witness those things. What a life it was! The story of the plagues is interesting, because just when one thought it could not get any worse, it actually did. And just when 2020 is coming to an end, news of another strain of the coronavirus hits our airwaves. There was one thing I could not understand about Moses and his people. When they finally left Egypt, well barely, they went to complain as they made their way to the promised land, where there they were in the middle of the desert frustrated. Even when they were fed from the heavens, they didn’t like the fact that they walked long distances in the hot sun, so they complained about what they ate. They were tired of eating the same thing, to the point the preferred to being slaves. How could they easily forget the hundreds of years of slavery and cruelty, living as second-class citizens in a place that was never to be home? It always amazed me how they forgot so quickly, why would they want to go back to that? I remember thinking that could never be me. I would never forget those thoughts. As the year comes to a close, I wonder if we will soon forget 2020. How our lives were chaotically reshuffled, or the number of people that were lost, to entering buildings being a complicated affair if you had no mask and schools being closed for several months. If we were to describe 2020, years from now, to children born on this year; it would it be with added exaggeration with memories that appear to be not all that bad. But with this new strain, if it is to spread quickly, it will be difficult to get people to care as much as we did a year ago. People have already muted bad news, and even avoid the statistics and daily reports of new cases that appear in our media. It is tiring to keep up and be on edge continuously. It gets to a point where we let our guard down and say, “Que sera sera, what will be, will be.” Well, bad news gets old and many people have the attitude, if my time has come, let it come. How long can one be resilient? It takes energy and effort and when you have leadership that is not keen on the situation, then it will fade even more quickly. Ah yes, human beings so fickle and forgetful. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa, executive director at Siasa Place@NerimaW