Ah, yes, time for a year in review piece, neh? Okay. I had a promising start to the year 2020, the best one in a very long time. I was fit, trim, healthy, alert, energetic, enthusiastic and most of all optimistic. How could it fail to be spectacular? Indeed, January showed up and planned projects took off well and three months in, someone coughed in China. If you are reading this, I don’t need to explain what happened next. Let me focus on the global-local dynamic of it from a Tanzanian perspective. I have never felt more connected to people and humanity in my life. Watershed events like 9/11 happen in one locality even if its effects spread outwards and touch us all. As a citizen of a developing country, I am used to being at the periphery of world events. Covid-19 however is everywhere. In the initial days I debated wearing a mask. The condom of the face, they are uncomfortable and highly visible. When I tried it out comments and reactions added a social disincentive. But when Covid-19 really hit and we all had to make decisions on the basis of public policy and personal circumstances, I was compliant. Not hard to do when you are a reclusive wordsmith: I worked in relative isolation, washed my hands, put together a care pack with sanitisers and extra face-masks and was introduced to the fresh hell that is the interminable Zoom meeting. I kept track of what was going on around the world and worried. I looked up friends on Facebook for the first time in years, tracking the status of various countries of interest. I grieved when we lost good friends. And I got extremely furious when my country declared that we were Covid-free just a few raw months into this global pandemic because we had prayed the Rona away. Of course I ranted. This was met all too often with mansplanations that were never based on any discernible logic outside of political expedience. Conservatives imagine that we bleeding heart progressives have never heard of Machiavelli. Silly. We simply have a particular moral code, and besides it’s in the name: progressive. We happen to be more well-read than our counterparts, a story for another day. I am entirely aware of the brilliance of shoving the whole problem aside lest it upset our situation. Tanzania’s general elections were barrelling down on us and there weren’t enough resources of any kind — not financial, not infrastructure, not human resources — to cope with it effectively. If I was tasked with the country’s welfare, this is an option that I would explore and maybe even implement with the judicious removal of any God talk. Luckily, I am powerless and can afford my moral imperative. Anyway, the middle of 2020 was not going well. The build-up to our general elections was predictable, if more vitriolic than anticipated. It was not a good time to be an independent as partisanship was being shoved down our throats. Tensions ran high. The unofficial rallying was intense, and when the official campaigning started it was downright hysterical. Nuance, subtlety, range, rich public debate, good oratory, vigorous media? All systematically attacked. When we voted on October 28, there was no consideration of the pandemic. I didn’t wear a mask because at this point the sense of helplessness was overwhelming. I voted knowing that it was a symbolic endeavour at best, I lived knowing that our disregard for freedoms, rights and human-centred public policy is harming Tanzanians. I was depressed, and I wasn’t the only one. But. Hong Kong is still protesting. Children were still laughing. A vaccine was developed. America voted Donald Trump out of the office of the president. I haven’t had to endure an overly-long hug or “handshake” (read: casual sexual harassment) from a man since March. And an environment hostile to free speech has brought us back to the times when we had to be actively aware of and engaged with the mechanism of information and freedom. Life continued, as it does. So: congratulations millennials and Generation Zedders: we did it! We finally have our before and after, the one we will be experts on when it comes to passing wisdom on to our anticipated grand-younglings and beyond. For ours is the kingdom of Covid-19 and its aftermath in an increasingly totalitarian world, amen. We’re going to grapple with information and dis-information, we’re going to keep mastering technology. We will become competent at living with and maybe even overcoming the negative effects of globalisation. We’re going to be free of Donald Trump’s Twitter terrorism. We will rectify the sins of our elders against this our planet, against us, against democracy, thriving, decency, kindness and joy. Because we’re us and “Life…uh…finds a way.” The novel coronavirus has mutated to present us with a global uptick in cases in the past few weeks, East Africa included. We are going to handle it by praying, sure, and also science-ing. Focusing on that in this article is a literary device for the framing of discussions we will be having next year, neh? Have a promising end of the spectacular year 2020. Elsie Eyakuze is a consultant and blogger for The Mikocheni Report: E-mail: elsieeyakuze@gmail.com