Lockdowns, quarantine, social distancing, travel restrictions, face masks, coronavirus fight were common words. Lost jobs and livelihood, postponed travel, closed borders and people working from home became the new normal. There are so many jokes about 2020 and the new year. 2020 wasn't easy; there was so much uncertainty from the global pandemic, to earthquakes, general elections and floods. It was a tough and eventful year. In December 2019, Covid-19 was identified in Wuhan, China, and in March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared it a global pandemic. Covid-19 saw lives rearranged. Lockdowns, quarantine, social distancing, travel restrictions, face masks, coronavirus fight were common words. Lost jobs and livelihood, postponed travel, closed borders and people working from home became the new normal. But here we are at that time of the year when we look at what we have crossed on our last year’s list of new year resolutions. A fresh start to set new resolutions, from eating healthy to shedding off some kilos, going back to school, learn how to cook, travel and much more. “My biggest resolution for 2020 was to take my book to the publisher but that didn't work out for a number of reasons, one being Covid-19, country laws and regulations and production costs for which if not for the pandemic I would have managed,” said Lucy Tomeka, public relations consultant Weight watchers “But in 2021, I look forward to going back to school once universities reopen. I have a different game plan for my book. I also want get into serious social media work, exercise and lose weight,” she added optimistically. Karina Chekani, a mother of three on the other hand, said she did not set resolutions for last year but she had one goal that is to start her own business. “When 2020 started I was working on setting up my own store for baby clothes and toys, but with the pandemic things got rearranged, flights suspended their routes, movement was restricted… I could not accomplish my plan. "Year 2020 taught me to be mindful of both my health and finances so I have decided to open another business on food and nutrition supplements.” When Tanzania first announced the Covid-19 case on March 16, we thought the pandemic would blow away after a month or two and we continue with our plans and pre-pandemic lives. “My 2020 New Year resolution was simple, to eat healthy and shed some kilos. With coronavirus, we closed school March to July. Eating, watching TV and sleeping was my daily routine and turns out the year ended with me gaining extra weight instead of losing,” said Joyce John, a school teacher. Catch-up time “This time around, I promise to eat healthier for the first three months of 2021 and then renew the plan from there if I succeed. Simple dieting and exercising routinely can be a challenge. I underestimated 2020,” said Miss John. “When coronavirus was first reported in the country, I was a few days to college reopening for my final semester as a postgraduate student to graduate this year. Despite the odds and all re-arrangements, graduating was possible and I am grateful. I schooled with masks on, attended classes online, washed hands frequently and maintained distance from classmates and everyone,” said Khaleed Abubakhar, a videographer and recent graduate from the University of Dar es Salaam. "Luckily, Tanzania is now corona-free and I am ready for what 2021 has to offer. So many work gigs passed me by in 2020 due to all its restrictions. Now it’s time to rejoin the market and make some money. That’s my number one resolution for this year,” said Abubakhar. Businesswoman Fatma Khamis said, “My 2020 manifesto undoubtedly turned sour. My kitchenware business short lived in 2020. When the year started I had opened a kitchenware store which I had to close in April because of the global pandemic. "Going forward, my to-do list includes setting up and re-opening the store a few weeks from now. "Although the pandemic is still out there, some countries have reopened, and I am now able to travel or order products,” she added.