Perhaps the best way that I can explain this feeling is “finally, we are here together.” This is a moment in history which has roots, bear with me. As an African born in the late 20th century, I grew up in an environment where from an early age there was an unspoken message of ‘less than.’ How could it be any other way, being of the first generation born way after independence being raised by those who carried the last dregs of trauma — and Stockholm Syndrome — from the colonial experience? By the time I was coming of age, development was the name of the game. Terms that became embedded in the psyche for better or worse: “maendeleo” and poverty and incapacity, “blackness,” Third World vs First World Countries which then got a politically-correct upgrade to Developing vs Developed Nations. I think you can see where I am going with this. While it is hard to pick up an inferiority complex when you come from a people who are, how shall I put it politely, known for their “self-regard,” nonetheless I became sensitive to this hierarchy of race, economics and culture the same way as I became sensitive to the trials and tribulations of gender. The personal is political. At the apex of the world order in which we were locked in last place was America. Thus my generation grew up consuming American technologies and cultural products, we are the original denizens of the Information Age. The colonials and missionaries might have had the Bible and guns and territoriality, the American Empire has television and social media and drones. And so here we are embracing and fighting against this intractable power imbalance. It affects our psyche and our political life whether we want it to or not. I see it manifest when we have debates about our self-rule. Every so often I find that those in defence of the status quo will attack ‘them’ —  Americans and maybe Europeans — for imposing “their” democratic and economic ideals on us. While I cannot dismiss this due to evidence of the overwhelming effects of various interventions, it distresses me to see us forgo our agency using this excuse. We simultaneously despise the West and desperately aspire to its version of modernity, often leaving us in a limbo where chaos works to undermine our social and political progress. Enter Donald Trump. Now, I have to tell you I have spent the past few days consuming hours of information in the hopes of answering “what the heck?” with regards to the storming of the Capitol building that happened recently. I needed context, depth, historical perspective and any kind of social and psychological analysis to understand what looks like the beginning of the end of the American Empire. I was surprised to find the most coherent answers and illuminating discussions came from economists — one Korean and one Scottish — as well as one anarchist anthropologist from America. Don’t tell the economists I said that, they are already insufferable as it is and it is my duty as a non-econ social scientist to roast them not acknowledge their usefulness. To cut a long story short, there is a structural argument that made sense about economic cycles in the West in their liberal democracy and its encounter with globalisation with its movement of finance and labour blah blah blah that gives rise to nationalism with its attendant racism. It helps to explain what is happening now to America and let’s just say it will not be getting any better anytime soon. Can the Left as we know it now do anything? Not really. Watch out for the effects of global warming though. We have now witnessed the exit of Donald Trump as the least popular president in modern US history to date. In the wake of his presidency lies a trail of debris as he enabled the destruction of many sacred American institutions including the peaceful transfer of power. He and his compadres opened the door to demons that we of the ‘Third World’ and ‘Developing Nations’ are so intimately familiar with. I take no pleasure in the suffering of the American people. American commentators who have had time to look up from the domestic horror show to consider its impact on their global standing are understandably dismayed. For a bellicose nation I cannot imagine that level of vulnerability is at all desirable. Here they are with a mob of stupidly-costumed extremist terrorists hunting down their Vice President and Speaker of the House. From calling us sh*thole countries to January 20, 2021, it has been a wild ride. I don’t think the intention was to release over-sensitive Africans from the unacknowledged weight of an unwanted and illegitimate racist global hierarchy but thank you nonetheless. I am unburdened. We need not lie to each other anymore. Many anti-democratic fellow Africans will use this as an excuse to fold back into the heinous autocratic patriarchy, but now I can also use the Trump presidency as an example of what happens when you opt for the decayed despot. Let us begin to discuss alternatives, healthy democracies our way. Also, the American way, like rule of law. It will take time, just as the decline of America did. I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge President Donald J. Trump for being himself and catalysing change. Big change, bigly change, the best change ever! Farewell, Sir. Elsie Eyakuze is a consultant and blogger for The Mikocheni Report: E-mail: elsieeyakuze@gmail.com