As the world grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought economies to a near standstill, the climate crisis continues to impact many countries negatively. This crisis will undoubtedly continue when the Covid-19 pandemic is overcome. Across the world, the climate crisis could potentially lead to more climate related risks with developing countries hardest hit, if adaptation initiatives are not prioritised beyond the Covid-19 pandemic. The economic shutdown worldwide as a result of the virus crisis has drastically reduced global emissions. But scientists still argue that the emission reduction is temporary as there is no infrastructural, policy or systems change to sustain the emission reductions and rebound effects as growth and emissions will even be higher for a short term to catch up again during post-Covid period. According to the United Nations, “even sustained emissions reductions on this scale would not be enough to limit global warming to 1.5 Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the goal set out in the 2015 Paris Agreement. To make that possible, emissions need to drop 7.6 percent every year this decade”. Whereas the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a reduction in emission it has, adversely affected livelihoods around the world, as many workers have either lost their jobs, gone on unpaid leave, or been forced to accept less pay. This shows that only a just socio-ecological transformation is a viable pathway that combines addressing climate change and creating sustainable jobs. As countries embark on economic comeback after Covid-19, it is also an opportunity for them to adopt climate resilient models that could help drastically reduce emissions and still provide livelihoods for populations. Even with the implications of coronavirus pandemic on economies, countries, especially the developed ones, need to enhance their greenhouse gases emission reduction ambitions, considering that the climate emergency, coupled with other crises, could halt several economies. During the economic recovery for developing countries, it will be important to invest directly in a sustainable economy as unsustainable growth will lead to more costs related to environmental damage. Rethinking transition in various sectors including transition to renewable energy technologies, adoption of different agricultural practices, enhancing investments in sustainable secondary and tertiary sectors could be part of the strategies in reducing emissions globally. With climate change having high impacts on the traditional economic sectors in developing countries (like agriculture), a radical shift is critical; more investments in the secondary and tertiary sectors, shifting production stages from the global north to global south as well as building regional-intercontinental supply chains and fostering inter-continental trade. The Covid-19 crisis presents an opportunity to rethink and change various approaches on economic development and interventions to cushion people. As the global community channels unprecedented resources to respond to the Covid-19, a comprehensive approach that also takes into consideration the climate change challenge should be adopted when dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Rebuilding towards a just socio-ecological transformation in a post-coronavirus world is an opportunity not to be missed. Robert Muthami is a climate policy specialist and works as a programme coordinator with the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Kenya office