It’s time to take stock of 2020. There was so much hope in January that the year would be the one to surpass all years in its goodness. We were through with the 1900s and now we were in a new decade. Little did we know what was coming. In February, at a global water and sanitation event in Uganda, I sat with my friend Ives Magloire Kengne and we made great plans for the future and what we would do in the water and sanitation space especially in Africa. However, I was irked that the solutions to Africa’s sanitation problems were coming from outside. So prof and I had very robust conversations and plans. I was excited about the possibilities that lay ahead in the water and sanitation space and with prof and other friends who shared the same passion. So you can imagine my devastation when Prof Kengne succumbed to Covid-19. With him went our plans. March and April brought the reality of the new era. Curfews, social distancing and sanitation became mainstream and campaigns were happening everywhere to promote awareness and to get people to comply. Zoom went from 10 million users to over 300 million. Webinars became the in thing and the new normal. Companies that had resisted the digital migration now had no choice but to move forward. We fell into this category as our entire business as a consulting firm centred around physical meetings with different organisations around the world. Now, we were locked down which in effect meant that we had to think differently. We had numerous conversations with clients about the disruption coming, but no one could have expected that it would come in the form of a pandemic that would tear through the world, killing people, overwhelming hospitals and health workers, destroying businesses and rendering people jobless and homeless. Come December and many have anything to look back to. It was a year they never want to experience again as they lost their homes, jobs, cars and their loved ones. What then do we do at a time like this? It’s time to look for the ashes. Each experience or season that produces outcomes that are not favourable also brings with it wisdom for the next phase. Each failure has within it the seeds of achievement. The last great pandemic was in 1918 and it was followed by the roaring twenties, which came with significant innovations such as the television in 1927 and the electric blender in 1922. It was also the decade that saw the invention of the pop up toaster, the home vacuum cleaner as we know it, frozen foods, bread slicer and many more innovations that are still serving us today. However, remember that the roaring twenties also came with the rise of conspicuous consumerism and partying that led all the way to the great depression. (More ashes to learn from). The point is this. Every fire leaves ashes — the lessons from the failures. This is the time to look back at the ashes of 2020 and decide that we can and indeed will build beauty from the ashes. Maybe the stage is now set for us 100 years later to have our own roaring twenties. Like we used to say in the boys’ scouts: Be Prepared. Those who live ready never have to get ready. Wale Akinyemi is the convenor of the Street University (www.thestreetuniversity.com) and chief transformation officer, PowerTalks. Wale@thestreetuniversity.com