Forgetting about all the pious and solemn resolutions we usually make on New Year will not be easy, and maybe it is okay for people to keep saying to themselves that they can be better than they are. After all, which ramshackle rake does not aspire to be an improved rake, at least compared to what they have been all this past year? It is an aspirational thing, and everyone is entitled to it, even those we suspect with good reason they will never rise above the mire they are stuck in. Truth is, everyone has the chance to redeem themselves, and no one should dampen the spirits of those who try. So, you are in business and aspire to doing bigger and better business in your community or country, go on and do it. If you are in the supply of goods, make sure what you bring to the market is the best you can find and that you do not hike your prices simply because there happens to be a shortage, which of course, creates greater demand, and you surely are anxious to make a killing. If you are a farmer, you know something about the ethics of producing what you know to be beneficial to your community or whoever you are selling your produce to. Those who buy your produce because you advertise yourself as a producer of organic goods need to know that you are as good as your word. The medical doctor knows he or she holds the key to life for the many people who come through their hands, and that the slightest inattention to the slightest detail will dispatch the unsuspecting patient to kingdom come. Ditto for the engineer, the cook, the garbage collector, the church pastor, the teacher, the mortuary attendant, the bar tender, the meat roaster… Every métier we are engaged in requires us to know that we are called upon to treat people with courtesy, honesty and diligence and not to attempt to do them in on account of what profit we may derive from their needing us at any given moment. Treat those who come to you in need as you would have those who you go to in need treat you, seems a reasonable enough proposition. And yet, in the New Year, how many people are likely to promise themselves to be better Christians or Muslims, or whatever other confession if it means they will make less money or they may have to give up a privilege they were used to? Most of these people we see thronging to churches and mosques clutching copies of the Bible and the Quran are nothing but hypocrites whose lack of faith includes that they believe they can deceive their own Maker into thinking that they are what they really are not. And yet they believe that the Great Wizard is omniscient! But probably the most wretched of these dissemblers will be the politicians, those who go around asking people to elect them because they will ‘bring development’ to them, as though it were a produce you bought on the market, like onions, and sent to your uncle’s kitchen. These charlatans should know, and I suspect they do know, that no one can ‘bring development’ to anybody, that development is delivered through conscious and intelligent communities working to raise their standard of living to bring them to a new level of livelihood. So, telling people you will bring them development should cease this New Year, and we should know that whoever uses these words is a fake. Of course the case becomes more complicated when the charlatans combine the deceit they have wrought on the people from political platforms with the lies they tell their congregations from pseudo-holy altars from which they promise to raise the dead when they cannot raise their own sick mothers from their dying beds. For these tricksters it is enough that their congregations are stupid enough to accept their lies, and the liars pocket the money. They are aided by a certain mental disease that makes people continue paying their money to get rich when they see their ‘pastor’ getting richer every day from the very money contributed by these ignorant ‘believers’ who cannot recognise what is being played on them before their very eyes. The combination of the theft that is being conjugated between the bogus churchman and the lying politician — these days both rolled into one — is one thing that our people should resolutely fight against in the New Year. I say this because it a dangerous and toxic mix when someone who claims to have his power from God actually goes into cahoots with those whose power flows from police guns, and who are determined to impose their rule over people who can stand them no longer. So, our resolutions ought to point in the direction of correctional change and transformation, rejecting the unholy alliance between the thieves in the syphilitic politics and the robbers in the leprous churches Happy New Year! Ulimwengu is now on YouTube via jeneralionline tv. E-mail: jenerali@gmail.com