In the year 2020, when the first devastating effects of the coronavirus were throwing the world into turmoil, a CNN anchor alluded to something that made me sit up. He made a brief presentation of the daunting tasks the world was faced with while trying to grapple with this pandemic that we knew little about and the failure to communicate among the various actors scrambling hugger-mugger to seek solutions in a bewildered manner. The anchor in question asked his respondent whether this was a ‘Lord of the Flies’ moment, which was really a rhetorical question needing no answer. That little conversation was riveting for me for a number of reasons. I was introduced to the story of that name as a very young man studying literature. Written by a Britisher, William Golding, it tells the frightening story of young English schoolboys going on holiday, and whose plane crashes on an uninhabited tropical island. Free of the enforced civility they left back home — parents and school authorities — the little boys start discarding all trappings of propriety, slowly turning into savages, complete with ‘war paints,’ ‘war cries’ and, eventually, ritual murders. Elements of rationality and fairness are slowly wiped off the tableau, and what matters now are the primeval instincts of hunting and trapping. There is no doubt in my mind that this is what was then happening to the Americans, who found themselves in the middle of a murderous pandemic at the same time as their supposed leader was working to encourage the spread of the virus and goading his crazed supporters to demolish the very institutions of governance he had sworn to defend and protect. The little Englishmen found themselves thousands of miles from the seats of restraining authority, which allowed them the latitude to acquire the freedom they instinctively desired, once beyond the care of their teachers and parents. The American thugs, on the contrary, went looking for those very symbols of authority on January 6 at the Capitol, to destroy them at home. Once freed from custom and strictures, the children on the island and the goons on Capitol Hill felt the rush of adrenalin impelling them to be ‘men,’ ‘strong,’ ‘patriots’ or ‘proud boys’ who will destroy all symbols of established order. Unlike the children, the fascistic hordes did not have to travel on an ill-fated plane; the only transport they needed was a flight of fancy planted in their collective imagination by Trump’s openly shared delusions. In a tongue of the Middle East where all these myths originated, Lord of the Flies translates as Bel Ze Bub which has all the connotations of a diabolical fiend. In Golding’s story, the children simply kill a pig and eat it and then stick its head on a spike in the middle of a cleared compound, and as it loses flesh and gathers flies it becomes the altar round which congregations are held. It is really extraordinary how this can be wrought. First, have hundreds of thousands of people who remain in your corner no matter what, and feed them on a diet of lies so blatant you know one has to be a loony to believe them, then keep telling those lies relentlessly until they can be ‘repeated’ by hundreds of thousands that first got them from you. Then give orders to storm the headquarters! The phenomenon of the ‘alternative facts’ has to be the most potent weapon in the arsenal of Trump’s handlers, whoever they may be after Steve Bannon. Once you have created for yourself a parallel universe that owes no allegiance to the reality the rest of the world is contemplating, you have liberated yourself from the shackles that were keeping you tethered to the common experiential reality. From that point on you can think up your reality, and it becomes fact, an alternative ‘fact’. It is the Old Big Lie all over again, which all the world’s fascists have deployed in history. Tell it over and over again, till you, the originator, can believe it yourself, to a time when those who first heard it from you are now preaching it to you. I hope someone in the book reading world — include us out! — is writing a novel titled, Love in the Time of Corona, along the lines of Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s Love in the Time of Cholera. There would be plenty to mull over romance with social distancing, no touching and certainly no (are you out of your mind?) kissing. Such a novel would include what young lovers, anxious to get back into the serious business of loving, tried ingesting hydroxychloroquine as touted by Trump, or one of them got seriously hurt when he tried the bleach treatment which started lacerating her intestines. People we put in power in our countries have mystical faculties, and they see what we don’t. Like the Tanzanian official who expelled someone from a meeting because he was wearing a mask. In a country where the rulers have banished Covid-19 he, wise guy, thought a mask could bring the virus back! Jenerali Ulimwengu is now on YouTube via jeneralionline tv. E-mail: jenerali@gmail.com