Is there an energetic 58-year-old man in your neighbourhood who at birth inherited a square mile of very fertile land with plenty of water, livestock and poultry, but he still borrows money to buy food, and doesn’t pay his lenders promptly at that? We have such men on the continent and one of them is called Uganda. While Mr Square Mile beats his children who occasionally get hospitalised with injuries, this habit is what neighbours and creditors mostly complaining about, not his incompetence in managing his rich inheritance. Yet it is this incompetence that causes his occasional child battering. For though child battering is a bad thing, it is just a covering-up reaction for the shame of failing to provide them with the necessities of life, and the violent child abuse wouldn’t arise if the dad had the competence to manage his rich inheritance well. How many Ugandans die from political battering on average every month? Definitely fewer than those who die from managerial incompetence. Many months can pass without a political death, until we get a spike maybe once every five years, like 54 people killed last November 18 and 19 in Kampala when presidential candidate Bobi Wine was arrested 100 miles away in the east. About 500 Ugandan women die every month ‘without fail’ while giving birth, killed by the incompetence of leadership in the health sector! 500 women, plus heaven-knows-how-many of the 500 human babies that they are trying to deliver when they die! For many years now for example, the National Medical Stores has been procuring over a million ‘mama kits’ — a package that contains all the equipment to ensure safe delivery and preliminary care for the newborn. Yet many mothers die in labour due to lack of surgical gloves, sterilising reagents, sterile blades and such, that are freely procured for them, but incompetence in the health sector ensures they don’t get the life-saving materials. Now the United States’ taxpayer injects a billion dollars in Uganda a year, half of which is for health. Still with our incompetence, we kill 500 women every month in childbirth, 250 times more than the couple of opposition supporters whose skulls we crack in the same period on average. We just held general elections in Uganda and our new parliament of over 500 MPs — same size as India’s whose population is thirty times bigger than Uganda’s — starts work in May. The competence of the 58-year-old parliament whose work besides legislation is mostly appropriation of resources and oversight is still weak. In agriculture — so called backbone of the economy — resources are allocated with such questionable planning and oversight that some interventional projects actually lead to contraction of farm output, leaving the sector worse than before the expensive intervention. In health, a couple of years back, Parliament secured some $400 million for a private hospital project but when the Health committee MPs went to inspect the project — just six miles from Parliament building — they were locked out at the gate like a bunch of street urchins. The US administration of President Joe Biden, which has taken office at about the same time as Uganda’s 11th Parliament, would do well to direct a tenth of its aid to Uganda to support competence building for Parliament. We need competence in public affairs management as urgently as human rights, because the two are deeply connected. After meeting the Ugandan head of state, the freshly arrived new US ambassador to Kampala Natalie Brown attempted to visit the (arguably) second-most important Ugandan, Mr Bobi Wine, who had just won over a third of the votes cast in the January 14 presidential election. The visit did not happen as the security turned Her Excellency away at the gate of Bobi Wine’s house where he was incarcerated after casting his vote on the 14th.This and the arrest of human rights lawyers a couple of weeks earlier have been the highlights of the US embassy engagement with the host government since the new ambassador reported to her duty station. Yet for its 2021-22 budget of $11billion, Uganda intends to borrow about one billion dollars externally, expressly for budget (recurrent expenditure) support. This is like a businessman seeking a bank loan to buy ugali for feeding the family. I think for the US to ensure better value for its taxpayers’ annual billion dollars stipend to Uganda, President Biden should invest in competence building for the Ugandan parliament for the next five years. It is an investment neither US nor Uganda’s public would forget or regret.