There is something not good about swine and highways in France. Every year scores of pigs die in a horrific crash on a French highway while being transported to the slaughter house. But what annoys my East African head are the French owners who send the bleeding carcasses to the incinerator. I hope the next time an innocent French butcher finds himself in an East African court, our corrupt judges find him guilty regardless, just to pay for his brothers’ wastefulness. Imagine what the joy 10,000 lardy kilogrammes would bring to the kiti moto loving Dar es Salamites or my Kampalans who consider any evening sitting incomplete without ribs or ears of “past leader” as they call pork (origin of the name for another day). But right now, millions of dead fish are floating on our side of Lake Victoria. When dead fish started popping up two months back, the public was alarmed. The fisheries department did lab tests and confirmed the fish hadn’t been poisoned. Everyone relaxed and the party started. Last time we shunned fish was 27 years ago at the height of the Rwanda genocide when headless victims’ bodies started docking at Ugandan beaches. Rangers tell us no animal however big eats a human head. The same applies to fish, so you roughly know how the unlucky Rwandans died. For months, we didn’t eat fish while our lakeshore people wore face masks long before Covid-19 happened. Today we all wear face masks and we eat dead fish, because our fishermen are not French butchers. As soon as the authorities said there was no poison, the fishermen started collecting the marine corpses and smoke-drying them for the market. Fish apparently take a few days after death before rising to float on the surface. By then most of them have putrefied and nobody would buy them with the smell — even if a fish is still alive many people can’t stand its smell. So this is what our fishermen do: they open the dead gill flaps and diligently peer inside. If the gills are more black than red, they throw that corpse away. If they are still red, they collect that for the fire. If you remember oxygenated and de-oxygenated blood from your science classes, it makes sense. So smoked fish is suddenly more popular, or more available. As for the fisheries department, well, since no fisherman poured pesticides in the lake, they have let everyone move on. Any guidelines on stopping or averting mass fish deaths? Sorry, Uganda is not France. We are all happy with cheap smoked fish. What is more, there is economic affirmative action in the islands and on the lakeshores. Now the womenfolk can pick the (dead) fish like the (fisher)men, no need to go into unsafe canoes with nets and so on. Women economic empowerment! Remember we had been having the military policing the water bodies for a few years to stop reckless fishing like using the wrong gear to catch underage fish. There was an outcry that the soldiers were harsh on the errant fishermen. As the just ended elections approached, the government relented and withdrew the soldiers from the lakes. The bonanza of harvesting underage fish was just resuming when the mysterious fish deaths started. Clearly, someone in the environment protection department is not doing their job. Every month, more petrol stations open in and around Kampala. There could now be more filling stations than schools or bars — both closed due to Covid-19 anyway. And each fuel station has a service bay which disposes hundreds of litres of old engine oil. They sell it for a few shillings to buyers who pour it on the ground for different reasons, key among them chasing away vermin in our overgrown surrounding. Every now and then, a full grown serpent is killed in Kampala and you wonder how, in an urban area. Anyway, tons of oil disposed in a city so well designed by nature with streams to drain into the lake what the fishermen no longer do — poisoning the fish. Besides, the rich have many leisurely places at the water front. But the poor also have their informal settlements at the waterfront (it is now politically incorrect to call them slum). So both rich and poor sewage ends up in the lake. It fertilises algae and other microscopic green life which consumes oxygen so fast, to below the required milligrammes per litre essential for supporting fish life. And voila! Millions of Nile Perch that had been saved by military patrols are now dying. The dead fish are signs that something is wrong in the environment, even if no fisherman is pouring poison in the water. And unless emptying of waste oil and untreated sewage in the lake are addressed, Lake Victoria will certainly die. It will regenerate a hundred or so years after today’s guilty population is all dead. Joachim Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. E-mail: buwembo@gmail.com