Grown girls like fairytales too, though ours get called “romantic comedies.” Check this out: A couple of weeks ago, the United States swore in its first Black and Asian Vice President, Kamala Harris. My society has a discernible population of Tanzanians of Indian descent but it is still unusual to find this combination in couples. I looked her up. Turns out her parents met in the melting pot of the US back in the day, or more specifically in the melting pot of the civil rights movement, and made a family. Then Harris did her thing of being first-generation born American and grinding for the grades in school, excelling her way into a stellar career all the while honing her skills in the mind-blowing combination of Caribbean and Indian cuisines. Add to that footage of her expansive laugh, a little grit in her past — not everybody is happy with some of her decisions as a public official — and I was sold. I like a smart and charismatic woman. Oh, yes. She is also a woman! When I remembered this, I did what any good feminist would do: I googled her residence. I had checked out the White House Presidential Apartments floorplans when Obama was in office and let me tell you: wow. The most powerful man in the world lives… there? I mean, I can appreciate the practicality of the arrangement, but still. It was important to find out what Harris had signed up for as vice president. I was pleasantly surprised. The current official abode of the Second Family is rather lovely and at a relaxing distance from the workplace. Only after spending too much time reading about the various renovations that Number 1, Observatory Circle has undergone over the years did it occur to me to wonder about Harris personal-slash-family situation. Believing in keeping some distance between the private and public spheres, I have a blind spot when it comes to politician’s personal lives. If it doesn’t involve a massive moral or criminal scandal, likelihood is I don’t know about it. It is easier to simply assume that politicians maybe, probably, have offspring and spouses just like civilians do and leave it at that. History is littered with superb women who have led nations, armies, empires. I dare you to try to remember their spouses’ names or anything notable about them off the top of your head. To make it easy for you, do Angela Merkel. Hint: yup, there is indeed a spouse in the picture which I only found out after I had exhausted online stories about her taste for beer, and which of the many consecutive French presidents she got along with - the important stuff. Tanzania has had a woman vice president since 2015, Mama Samia Suluhu Hassan, our first. I believe she mentioned her husband in a clip I saw once, but her gender only held our immediate attention for an appropriately brief amount of time before we got on with life. We have had a woman as Minister of Finance before, a woman as Speaker of the House, just missing a Chief Justice now and a Governor of the Bank of Tanzania. There is, or rather there was a progressive trend. Paradoxically, the circumstances of Mama Samia’s time in office have yielded an absolutely heart-breaking six years for feminism and feminists in this country. Public discourse on women and girls has become tricky of late: you never know when you switch on your device whether you shall rejoice or find yourself shocked and disgusted. Of course, I am exhausted. I can barely stand the news these days, let alone find strength to track the gender politics and optics of this administration. So when Harris came along with Doug Emhoff holding her Bible at the inauguration, my parched soul perked up and took notice. Perhaps you will have kenned by now that America became a convenient compare-and-contrast partner for Tanzania circa 2016. I certainly feel free to borrow from its experiences both to condemn and to inspire, and in this case to imagine and take a small break from my current reality. It was inspiring to see this radiant woman take oath and step into so much power. It is fun making cheeky comments about Emhoff performance as a suitably demure but enthusiastic helpmeet as he tries to figure out what a Second Gentleman should do with himself. But really what I am doing is fantasising that one day it will be unremarkable when a woman- irrespective of her ethnicity and gladly supported by her spouse- takes office in my own country in circumstances where it can make all the difference in the world. As I have written before, Hollywood is part of my generation’s zeitgeist and I do have a taste for good romantic comedies with a strong female lead. I am sure a couple of lawyers from California who have lived in LA can understand the power of such therapeutic escapism. Especially when they offer a story in which gender and race so happily fade into the background in the soft, warm glow of a progressive triumph. And they get to live in a tasteful house with nice décor and great gardens. Fade to Black and Indian.