A man known as ‘Born Gifted’ on Twitter last week raised a storm after he claimed that his uncle had, belatedly, found out that two of ‘his’ three children were not biologically his. Gifted said that his uncle was hospitalised after learning the hard truth. Such revelations are becoming common in Nigeria despite the cost of DNA tests, with even prominent people featuring in them. Late last month, a Nigerian High Court Judge announced that he had recently found out that the three children he had with his ex-wife were actually not his. Justice Anthony Okorodas of Delta High Court, parted with his ex-wife, a lawyer, 11 years ago and remarried, but was helping to raise the children from his first marriage. On January 28, he issued a statement saying he got an anonymous tip that one of the children was not his biological child. He decided to do a paternity test on all three and the DNA tests found that none of the three children were his biological children. The Judge had been raising the children with his new wife. DISPUTE In another case, a 45-year-old man died recently after his wife told him that her boss at work, a bank manager, fathered their two children. The man is said to have been traumatised and died last December. The case however became widely known after the bank manager reacted to the online discussions. Four years ago, a case involving Nigeria’s former military Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon, became fodder for the media. In a paternity tussle settled in March 2016, Gowon acknowledged fathering a child born outside wed lock with the late public relations expert, Princess Edith Ike Okongwu, bringing to an end a 48-year-old paternity dispute over Mr Musa Gowon. Musa, who spent about 23 years in a United States prison, returned to Nigeria late last year after he was acknowledged by Gen Gowon upon the report of a conclusive DNA test. The paternity dispute was the subject of a legal suit that reached the Supreme Court in Nigeria, which Gowon’s ex-lover won. In acknowledging Musa as his son in a statement, Gowon said, “Following years of doubts and speculation, a DNA test was recently conducted to ascertain the paternity of Musa Gowon, who recently returned to the country. “The results of the tests were conclusive, and they confirm my paternity. We, the family, are working to assist in his rehabilitation following a very difficult period in his life. As we look forward to the future with faith in God, we request that our privacy be respected.” PATERNITY TESTING Many of these cases in Nigeria involve couples who have fallen out, so it may be difficult to determine just how many men have raised children they thought were theirs. But thanks to technology, DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) paternity testing has become possible. It uses what scientists call genetic fingerprinting to determine whether a man and a child or children are biologically related. The test can also determine the likelihood of someone being a biological grandparent of a child. Experts say DNA testing is the most accurate way of ascertaining paternity. According to Dr Ayodele Adeniyi, the Chief Executive Officer of Paternity Test Nigeria, many people in the country would want to confirm the paternity of their children but are restrained by the high cost of DNA tests. The test can go for as high as $600. However, he has advice for anyone planning to go down this road. “Don't start what you can't finish. Before indulging in a DNA test, you should make sure you are mentally, physically and psychologically okay to withstand the results. You should always prepare for the worst, because if you die in the process, you still lose,” he said. Nigerian courts are inundated with paternity cases, which many times involve DNA tests. The cases, however, remain undecided because of the high cost of the test. Mr Kazeem Ayanwale, CEO of Safe Family Home, a Nigerian non-profit child rights organisation, said the late discovery of child paternity had sent some men to their early graves, and had exposed others to lifelong disgrace. “How does one explain a situation where a man who believes he has four children is later told he isn't the father of any of them? Where do you expect such a man to start from?” Arguing for reduction in the price of a DNA test, he said: “If the test is cheap, it can be done as early as possible, for any man that suspects his wife.’’ Dr Helen Obi, Vice Chairperson, Federation of International Women Lawyers (FIDA) Anambra chapter, has attributed the high rate of paternity fraud to the abuse and abandonment women experience in marriages. Dr Obi, an expert in Family Law, said on February 9, 2021 that, although there is no legal punishment for paternity fraud, it is largely due to high level of abuse, abandonment and second-class treatment most women endured in their various marriages. “Women most times do not want to get divorce but only in extreme cases where their lives are endangered,” she said. She advised couples to adopt a more cooperative approach, invest in love and an all-inclusive marriage, to avoid paternity fraud.